Add information around multiple labels, relationship types and additional properties to vector index command documentation (#1454)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc

== Create vector indexes

A vector index is a single-label, single-property index for nodes or a single-relationship-type, single-property index for relationships.
It can be used to index nodes or relationships by `LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>` or, as of Neo4j 2025.10, `VECTOR` properties valid to the dimensions and vector similarity function of the index.

> As of 2026.01, the index can also be multi-label, multi-relationship-type or include additional properties for filtering purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Neo4j 2026.01, the index can also be multi-label, multi-relationship-type or include additional properties for filtering purposes.
```

}}
----

Like full-text indexes, vector indexes may be created for multiple labels or relationship types.

> In that case, all nodes with _at least one_ label matching _at least one_ of the labels or a relationship whose type matches _at least one_ of the relationship types will be included as long as they have the vector property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, all nodes with _at least one_ label matching _at least one_ of the labels or a relationship whose type matches _at least one_ of the relationship types are included as long as they have the vector property.
```

> In difference to multi-property fulltext-indexes, the vector property is the only property that affect if the node or relationship is included in the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to multi-property full-text indexes, the vector property is the only property affected if the node or relationship is included in the index.
```

double-check if this reflects the intended meaning (specifically the vector property being the only one that is affected)

Author: the vector property is the only one that decide whether the node/relationship should be in the index or not (a node with all additional properties but no vector property will not be in the index), so the property isn't affected, the index is based on the property? 🤔

The additional properties will only be included in the index if they are of one of the types `INTEGER`, `FLOAT`, `STRING`, `BOOLEAN`, `DATE`, `ZONED DATETIME`,  `LOCAL DATETIME`, `ZONED TIME`, `LOCAL TIME` or `DURATION`.

> Additional properties of other types or that are missing will be treated as `null` by the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional properties of other types or that are missing will be treated as `null` by the index.
```
not sure i understand the "or that are missing" part - what does it refer to? additional properties that are missing? what does that mean?

Author: If the node just doesn't have the property? `(:Label {prop: 'I exist'}), (:Label:ImMissingTheProperty {})`

Author: Mostly just trying to point out that a node/relationship with **just** the vector property will still be in the index but all additional properties for the index will be null/missing and if you're trying to use them for filtering in your query then they'll be returned as `null`

You can create a vector index on multiple labels with additional properties for filtering using the following query:

.Create a vector index for multiple labels and with additional properties
[source, cypher]
----

> CREATE VECTOR INDEX multiLabelAdditionalProperties IF NOT EXISTS

Reviewer 2: Possibly we could add an example for a relationship index with multiple types also, but there does not seem to be any examples of relationship indexes in these docs so far so perhaps it is a bit outside of the scope of this PR

Author: the closest I think there is is the one right above which is more syntax than example, I could add a similar thing for this if we want 🤷

Reviewer 2: Ah I missed the one right above. I leave it up to you if you think it is valuable or self-explanatory

Author: Might as well add it, I'm considering adding a test-setup comment to run `awaitIndexes` anyway to see if that can solve the test failure :P

--
|

> | Procedure signatures from `SHOW PROCEDURES` will render the vector arguments with a type of `ANY` rather than the semantically correct type of `VECTOR \| LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Procedure signatures from `SHOW PROCEDURES` render the vector arguments with a type of `ANY` rather than the semantically correct type of `VECTOR \| LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`.
```
